"There's something I have to tell you... I really should have told you before," she said, wringing her hands. "It's... it's about the baby."
"What about her?" he asked.
"Well - well, when I was a girl -"
This was backwards. Completely backwards. Forget dramatic timing. I opened the door and swept in.
"Witch!" the father exclaimed.
"...That's not my witch," said the mother.
"You had a witch, too? I had to promise her -" he said, pointing at me, "the baby - darling, I didn't realize she'd collect, I didn't think she could possibly really want the baby, I thought she was trying to frighten me -"
"But - but I had a witch - a different witch -"
"Oh, both of you shut up," I growled. "Yes, I'm actually collecting, what would I have let you get away with my singing roses for if you had nothing I wanted? I could have kept you for a pet or a statue, and instead I'm taking the child. The other witch has apparently declined to appear -"
"I most certainly have not!" exclaimed a fourth voice behind me. "Goodness, this is a mess, isn't it? D'you suppose that you could just relinquish your claim - after all, surely the mother's right is stronger than the father's, what with the three quarters of a year involved in the baby-making and such - I'll trade you a singing rosebush if that's what your business is about? I haven't got one but I know a -"
"Oh, nightshade," I hissed. "I don't want another rosebush, I have enough rosebushes at this time, the man stole a few cuttings years ago. I want the baby."
"Well, so do I, and I've been promised it just the same if not better. Is it a boy or a girl, dear?" the newcomer asked the mother.
"...Girl," whimpered the mother.
"Well, the little munchkin is clearly not staying here, whatever she's doing," the other witch said. She was younger than me, by at least a few years, no gray in her dark gold hair, dressed scarcely more like a witch than a milkmaid in dusty rose, no hat, no robes over the dress. She made a preposterous figure and I would have said she was no witch at all if the mother of the child didn't seem to recognize her. "We'll go figure this out somewhere besides your front hall, shall we? And you can get on with having another one without quite such a mess of owings on it."
"If you'd settle for the secondborn," I suggested.
"No, no, it'd never work," said the other witch. "Letting alone the possibility that they never want to repeat the process! You're more than welcome to wait -"
"Look here, I made my deal when the boy was twelve, I certainly have prior claim, she's got to be five years younger than he is -"
"And she's the one who carried the babe, isn't she, it's hardly my fault that this boy paid more than ten minutes' attention to her and you were able to track them down!"
"Weren't you going to have this argument somewhere else," said the father weakly. Probably hoping we'd duel, kill each other, and leave the little family in peace, bargain or no bargain.
"If you think I'm going to let you carry off the child -" I began.
"You can hold her, but I'm not letting you out of my sight," the other witch said. "Go on then."
I rolled my eyes and scooped up the infant out of the cradle. And promptly dropped a smoke globe, which brought me straight home. If she was fool enough to let me be the one to lay hands on the contested baby, so be it -
And she was standing in my living room.
"Tut, tut, aren't we impolite. We haven't resolved the question. Oh, this place is nice, isn't it?"
"How did you do that?" I asked.
"I'm a witch."
"So the hell am I -"
"Language! There's little ears about!" cooed the intruder.
"You still seem under the impression that you're going to have any say in what happens to the owner of those little ears. You may have followed me home, but now you're in my domain -"
"Yes, mind your hospitality obligations."
"I didn't invite you in!"
"Of course you did."
I went back over the sequence of events and - yes, I sort of had. Implicit agreement to the rules of engagement that included continuing our little custody battle somewhere else. She'd let me choose the ground, and then followed me right to it. I should have gone somewhere else.
"Look," I said, "I need this baby. I don't have any others lined up, I want to turn her into my apprentice, and the sidereal arrangements I need to seal the deal are only coming up once in the next thirty years, six months from now, too soon to trawl the continent for needy pregnant peasants. What would it take to get you to go away?"
"I'm not going away," said the other witch.
"You -"
"Look, let's do this civilly. I'm Millicent. What's your name?"
I looked up at the ceiling. I needed to string some more garlic. The baby fussed in my arms and I started swaying to soothe her.
"Orawne. What do you even want her for?"
"Same thing. I haven't got a time limit, but I do have to stick to the first child I pick. I'm not giving her up any more than you are."
"Oh, for heaven's sake -"
"But I can share."
I stared at Millicent.
"You can share?"
"I can. Look, I haven't got a permanent residence at the moment -"
"You were going to raise a baby apprentice while homeless?" I exclaimed.
"While nomadic, thank you, and with plenty of people who have roofs and owe favors! But you've got lots of room. I'll take a spare bed and save you childrearing time and she can learn both sorts of witching."
"You're mad. You're completely -"
"I bake."
"I'm sure you do, but -"
"I will do all of the laundry." This with a significant look at the baby in my arms.
"Upstairs, first door on your left," I sighed. "I keep early hours, don't clatter around after nine in the evening unless the baby needs something."
"Thank you, Orawne," smiled Millicent.
"Don't mention it," I growled.
"We're going to need to name her," she said.
"Vercari."
"I was thinking Linda."
"What in the world kind of witch is named Linda? For that matter, what kind of witch name is Millicent?" I said.
"Oh, I come from a long line of witches with ordinary names. I'll settle for middle name placement if you'll let her switch what she goes by later should she like to."
"Vercari Linda," I mused.
"Oh, and I must insist on using my last name. Apprentice reasons."
"...Vercari Linda what, then?"
"Murk. Acceptably witchy?"
"Yes. Fine. Whatever."
"We're going to get along famously, Orawne, I just know it," beamed Millicent.
